-Hey Gabby, have you finished the homework yet for
that computation in medicine class?
-No, there was this one problem
though is so long I didn't get to it yet.
Is it the one that has all those parts,
like the four parts or whatever?
Oh, yeah. Okay. Let's take a look at that then.
Okay. So we have a doctor monitoring a patient's reaction to
a medicine and what's
recorded is the amount of
medicine and the patient's body.
And it's measured in grams,
and it's recorded every other hour.
And so here's where it shows
the chart with the readings
for how much medicine there is.
And so the first part,
we need to sketch a piecewise linear function
to approximate the actual function of what
the true value of the medicine is over the interval 1-11.
And we need to find the average rates of
change in each of those two-hour periods.
And then we need to find a formula
for the whole piece-wise linear function.
And then there's that last part where we anticipate
what the average rate of
change between the 11th and 13th hour is.
-So we have to do all that.
And that last part,
it seemed kind of open-ended to me.
-Yeah, it looks that way.
I think from what
the professor said in class that she just wants us to
say like how steep or shallow the slope
is for the 11th and 13th hour compared to the other ones.
And if it's positive or negative,
or if it's increasing or decreasing.
-see, I thought we had to figure out
an exact value or in a formula for it.
-Yeah. No. I think because
there's not enough information there for that.
That's all that that's all that we need to do.
-Okay
-Okay. So let's, let's look at that.
So the first part is just sketching the function.
So let's, let's draw that out.
Let's say we have here this r coordinates.
Let's say here's 1,3,5,7, 9,11. 1,2
And Let's see.
So we have that's 0.61 at 1,
so it's right around here.
And then we have that's 1.47 at three.
-Wait, how do we know which axis is which again?
-Oh, that's a good point.
Yeah. I think this is the this is the time in
hours and then this is the quantity of the medicines.
Let's call this f of t, I guess.
Since that's the function that we're
going to draw to approximate it.
So, okay, So for time 3 we get 1.47.
So it's like around here maybe.
And then for time 5, it's 2.01.
So it's basically right at two.
And then five time 7,
it's basically the same place.
We'll just draw a teeny bit higher.
And then at 9, it's at 0.91.
So it's dropped back down to being below one here,
like right around there.
And at time 11, it's 0.49 slick maybe here.
So then we wanted to have a piecewise linear function.
So we can just connect these dots.
And that'll give us the lines that we want
to use for our piece-wise linear function.
-Oh, because we want a piecewise linear function,
we have to connect them with lines.
-Yep, Exactly. Okay. -Okay. And so,
and this is on the interval 1 to 11.
So I think that's all we need to do for that part.
-Okay. So this is part one and we're done.
-Yeah, so let's, let's label that.
So here's Part one, and that's it.
So for part two,
so now I need to find the average rates of change.
-So does that mean we could
figure out the slope that's average rate of change.
-Yeah, exactly. So if we just
find the slopes for each of these lines,
that'll give us what we want so
we know that our change in
t. Let's do the first two
and I can just send you the slides for the others.-okay, sounds good
So we know that
the amount that t is changing here is 1 to 3.
So we know that for our denominator.
So let's call this like our slope m, at like one.
We know that for here,
the t value is changing 1-3.
So we do three minus one.
And we know that the f of t value is
changing from 0.61 to 1.47.
So we do 1.47 minus 0.61.
And then let's see.
So that's simplifies over two.
Let's see. I think that's 0.86.
Yes. Is that right?
Okay. Over 2 is 0.43.
And then let's see, let's do one more.
So m of three.
So if we're looking 3-5 now,
we get that we're changing from 1.47 to 2.01.
So let's put that on the top.
And then on bottom we're changing 3 and 5.
So five minus three.
I think that's 0.54 on top. It's that right?
-Yes. but we need equal sign there
-oh, yeah, you're right.
Good point 0.5, 4/2 is 0.27.
-Yeah.
Then we do the exact same thing for the other ones.
So I think you can do it later.
-That's not too bad.
-Okay.
-Yeah, exactly. So then
we get to the next part where we need to
find a formula for the whole function,
-oh okay, so we have to write equations for
lines for each part. -Right
Yeah, that's exactly what I did.
So so we have the slopes
for the lines because we figured out what
the average rate of change was already.
So then it's just a matter
of like writing out the equations for them.
Yeah. So we know that, um, let's see.
So let me write my piecewise function here and I won't,
I won't finish it because I'll
I'll send you the slides for it.
But let's see.
So we know that 1 to 3,
we have f of t. If we want to
find what the Y-intercept of it is,
we have f of t is changing along here.
So we could do f of t minus
whatever the initial value is there, which is 0.61.
Okay? So we have f of t minus 0.61.
And that's how much, that's how much we're changing here.
Vertically. How much we're changing horizontally,
while we have t at some value, starting at one.
And this is equal to the rate of change,
which we got with 0.43.
-Okay, so we're just basically using
the rate of change formula to figure out our line.
-Yeah, exactly. That's what I'm doing.
So I should say this is for
1 to 3 -how come is less than -well,
I mean, I guess the best way to explain it,
there'll be the same value on both of the lines.
Subtle end up with. So I guess it doesn't
matter that much, but, um,
if we have less than it,
like it denotes that this is
the line segment that we're looking at on this interval.
So it just makes more sense to keep it that
way because we get the new data point in that
specifies a new slope that we have.
-Okay. -Yeah, so let's see here.
So then we can just multiply this to get
r. We can multiply this over to get her in line.
So then we would have that f of t
minus 0.61 is equal to 0.43 times t minus one.
Then we can just move that to the other side.
And I'll just put that in here
because That's just the last step.
So f of t is equal to 0.43 t minus one plus 0.61,
and this is between 13.
-Okay
-Now, okay, to be careful,
or we should be careful that at the last endpoint,
we wanted to have it be a closed interval.
-oh because we have that defining that -right, yeah, okay.
Okay, So, okay.
So let's see.
So let's do one more and
then let's do one more really fast.
So 3 to 5, we have f of t
minus 1.47 over t minus three is equal to 0.27.
Multiply that over again,
we get f of t minus 1.47 is equal to 0.27 t minus three.
And so if we plug that in here, add that over,
then we get 0.27 minus
three plus 1.47 from T 3 between 5,
and then I'll Sunday the others.
So I think that's all we need to do for now.
-Okay
Okay.
Alright, and so now for this last part,
we have to figure out what is going to between 11 and 13.
So since you said we don't have to be exact,
we can say it's gonna be
decreasing following this pattern.
So it's gonna be negative and
maybe about negative 0.1. -Yeah.
I don't think you need to say it that precisely,
but yeah, I think it's something like that.
I just put from mine that's just like decreasing.
And then shallower than
shallower than on the interval 9-11.
-Oh, okay.
That's that's it.
I wasn't doing well done.
Yeah. No. I think it's shorter than it looks.
It's just a lot of like computing outlines and stuff.
Can you went when you finish writing all this up,
can you help me on this organic
chemistry problem I'm working on?
It's really, really hard
and I don't know what to do about it.